Predictive Modeling 2: Time Series Analysis

1. Apply Time Series methods to analyze the data in any one time series data set other than AirPassengers or Atmospheric CO2. 
  (Hint: You may find and choose your own data set, but choose one that gives reasonably good results when you analyze it using the
  methods of time series analysis)

2. Build a timeSeries object with the data.

3. Plot the yearly (or other suitable periodic) mean values

4. Plot the monthly (or other suitable periodic) boxplots

5. Decompose the time series using the stl function. What type of trend does it show?

6. What type of seasonality?

7. How is the residue after you remove trend and seasonality?

8. Build a model of the data using the HoltWinters method for the period upto about 75% of the data 
(e.g., up to December 2015 if it were for the CO2 data set). Use suitable values of alpha, beta and gamma.

9. Predict the values for the next 25% of the time (e.g., for the CO2 data set, all of 2016 and the first 3 months of 2017).

10. Plot the predicted values along with the actual values to compare them.

11. Compute the rms error between the predicted and actual values.

12. Try to fine tune the model by changing alpha, beta and gamma.
Are you able to improve the model (i.e., get a lower rms error)?

13. Build an ARIMA model for the period up to about 75% of the data (e.g., for the CO2 data, up to December 2015) using auto.arima()

14. Predict the values for the next 15 months (e.g., for the CO2 data, all of 2016 and the first 3 months of 2017).

15. Plot the predicted values along with the actual values to compare them.

16. Compute the rms error between the predicted and actual values.

17. Try to fine tune the model by manually changing the values of p, d, and q in ARIMA.
  Are you able to improve the model (i.e., get a lower rms error)?

18. Based on your experiment, which method is better and why? HoltWinters or ARIMA?

19. Did you try anything like detrending or cleaning up the data outside of these methods? Did it help?

20. If at any point you are not getting good results, consider changing the data set! (You don't have that liberty in real life, but for this lab assignment, you can!)
